Hey guys welcome back.
All right so we're talking about video marketing and so far in this section we basically explained what
Video Marketing is why you'd want to make a video and then we talked about the many common types of
videos out there.
We also touched upon the three different phases of video production.
We have preproduction production and postproduction all video projects are going to have something in
each of these categories.
So this is where you need to plan well in pre-production that's the time that comes before you shoot
any part of your video.
And the reason why pre-production is really kept separate from production is because of how vital pre-production
is to the success of a video.
Now that preparation is important for running a blog post or baking a cake.
So
I ever know now it is absolutely necessary for the success of a video and I don't care if you're talking
about the latest 300 million dollar Marvel Comics movie or firing up your iPhone and just live streaming
something.
If you don't prepare you're going to do and say and where you're going to do it.
Well the process of making a video will get exponentially more difficult and the end product will be
worse.
So as part of your preparation for creating videos you need to come up with some solid ideas for content
back in our content strategy section we spent a good deal of time talking about content types you know
common formats people use to write post and then we also talked about common topics people would write
about.
Video content is a lot like written content and that there are some common types and topics worth considering.
So in this lecture I want to talk about those common types and topics you can use for video and how
to come up with some ideas of your own.
Now if you're at the point where you're ready to jump in and create videos I'm going to make assumptions
about you and your process so far.
First of all I have to assume you've already taken the necessary step of defining who your audience
is.
That's the part where you do some research.
Look at any existing data or information you have and create a picture for yourself of who your ideal
audience would be.
So it also be the part where you confirm that your audience is interested in video content to begin
with because you know if you're about to listen to me tell you about how to create a whole bunch of
videos in your audience rather read that content or just not interested in it all.
Well you might be wasting your time.
So make sure you know your audience and that they're open to videos and if you haven't done this research
please go back to the content strategy section and check out the lectures.
I think it's called like defining your audience.
The process is kind of the same as content marketing.
But you know you still need to know who you're going be talking to.
If you're already all done that or you just don't really care.
Well then I think we're good to go it's go on back in the content strategy section.
We did a group of lectures about common content types.
I think there are 10 in total and it included things like ultimate guides and roundups and you know
other ones.
Well since we're talking video here now I want to focus in on five of those content types you could
apply to video and I'm going to ignore the others because some of those written formats just don't translate
well to video format.
So the first one is tutorials.
You might remember that from the content marketing section of all those content types this is one that's
probably easiest to do as a video whether the shooter feels totally planned out and recorded or if it's
live and interactive as part of a stream tutorials make for great video content because people can see
what you're doing instead of just reading about it.
Number two interviews now interviews are another natural fit for video.
If you can get in the same room or do a video chat with an expert while you can record and produce an
interview video content type that allows you to lean on the other person to come up with the actual
information as long as you ask decent questions of course.
The number three have company stories now producing videos that tell companies stories obviously make
a lot of sense.
You can make it about the origin of your business.
People who do all the work while there's always the slack off the location where you work and the charities
you support etc..
Anything that helps reveal that human side about your business is a nice thing.
Sharing his stories through video can make it easier to relate to as well.
Number four is case studies and in a case a you're going to outline how and why a customer chose your
product or service and how it impacted their business.
Usually I think it's easier to consume all of this information if it's in a written format but a video
could be a more entertaining way to get the same point across.
It could also be a little bit more convincing than a fifth one are talking about the listicle so it
might be a stretch.
But yeah you could actually create listicle videos and let all the companies out there that do.
Buzzfeed obviously does make listicle videos as does like college humor and Valks and all those guys.
If you're showing a list of video elements like clips from a movie or video games or apps Well the net
could actually work.
It could be a little more engaging.
However with written listicle you might be able to create list into like the triple digits.
Like I don't know the hundred web sites you can download e-books but with the video you're probably
going to need to stick to something shorter.
Otherwise the insanely long video a top ten list is probably something that's closer to what you want
to make with a video.
So those are five content types that could be done in video tutorials interviews and Company stories
are generally get to be your best bet.
So if you wanted to take those ideas a step further and start thinking of content ideas for your own
videos.
Well then let's think about this.
Let's start with tutorials.
Now what kind of video tutorials would you produce.
Well what products do you have.
What features do those products have.
What basic functions should people understand about your products.
What concepts do people need to understand before they can really use your product.
What I'm asking basically is this what knowledge could help people get started and what advanced functions
could help more experienced customers get even more out of your product.
Also keep in mind with tutorial videos you don't have to just make it about you you you you you you
can make a tutorial but how to use something that's related to you via software that had something to
do with graphic design.
I could make a series on how to use Adobe Illustrator or how to use or how to find a good free stock
photos.
And that's something that people who might actually be interested in would find are plenty of questions
you need to ask if you're going to go the route of making tutorial videos.
And when I say that I don't mean it in a general sort of like psychological asked these questions to
yourself.
I mean literally answer these questions go through every one of them type them in a document somewhere
and come up with the answers your audience would want if they were researching you considering you and
maybe deciding to buy your stuff.
So let's say for example year that company Squarespace Squarespace is a company that provides services
to people who want to create nice looking professional web sites and it's really like an entire online
presence in a box.
If you've ever listened to a podcast you've heard an advertisement from them like an advertisement everything
and the Web sites Amaker are really nice looking.
If you guys from NBP course are going to use this but they're hard to customize.
Now they also offer services for marketing as well as e-commerce.
So you'd come to Squarespace if you needed a Web site and really wanted to establish yourself online.
Well with all of those services they offer Squarespace could easily produce a whole series of tutorial
videos and they actually have done it to help people understand how to get started how to create an
account and navigate all of those pesky billing questions how to manage your domain names with their
system how to add images to add pages blah blah blah blah blah.
As you can see there's a series of videos for each of these subjects so there's a lot of valuable information
here especially excellent about Squarespace is approach those that they know video isn't the solution
for everyone.
Their videos are professionally produced.
They look and sound great.
And if you watch them you get the answers you want but they also provide all of that same value in written
form on the same page as each video with links and screenshots to drive home each point.
And this is kind of an important lesson I want you to realize.
Video Marketing or video content whatever you want to call it isn't like a separate tactic you can use
exclusively on some platforms.
Video should be a part of your overall content strategy and you should use video to do things that text
and other formats can't do.
When Squarespace produces these great tutorials they complement them with certain information and sure
everybody out there looking for this value actually gets it.
Now if you decided you wanted to interview experts in your field and then produce nice videos with them
will make a lot of sense to offer a written transcript of the interview with the video.
That way people will want to watch the video can watch video and that people want to read they can read.
That is something that's worth keeping in mind with video.
If you don't add close captions then there's nothing for Google to index.
Therefore it's generally a very good idea to have a written version as well.
If you do add transcripts that's great.
That's fewer words.
So Google is not going to parse as much as a written version.
Point is if you're doing this for SEO then make sure that you have a written version and transcripts
and close captions if you can.
Protip being obviously that YouTube auto generates or captions for you if you want to.
Oh yeah.
That was uploaded to YouTube though put in the transcriptions that you can download it back now.
Company stories are another Content-Type where video could be valuable.
Think about how you could mix and match formats here a page with lots of written text with images videos
and maybe even info graphics showing corporate timelines.
This mix of content can make the entire experience more interesting.
So perhaps if you can interview your CEO or founder ask him why they started the company.
Combine that with pictures of your first office space and a written account of your first days or weeks
of business and you've got an interesting origin story to share.
Let's take an example.
A company called Eastman.
They're a global chemical company with tens of thousands of employees with products and partnerships
that range probably across every industry.
They make toys they make clothing in the autumn.
They work with automotive and medicine plastics are pretty much everywhere.
Well in about two and a half minutes Eastman pretty much boils down their story into a video that gives
you an idea as to what they're all about.
If they can do that and they're just all they do is make plastics.
Well you can do that as well or you can use video to highlight your customers instead and produce case
studies conducting interviews would again be great use of the video format since you can see and hear
clients tell their stories instead of reading a quote.
It makes for a more personal experience.
That some people trust more.
For example go to a meeting produced a pretty cool case study video about Investor's Business Daily
and how they use go to meeting in their business.
The videos are just about two minutes long and it makes the case for why other similar businesses should
be using their product.
And then if you wanted to create a video listicle the format is becoming even more commonplace.
For example Forbes created this video here about the top 10 jobs in the U.S. for 2017.
And if you're concerned about how to make a video listicle Here's a tip if you watch the Forbes video
you'll see it's made entirely up of stock photos and other still images.
All they did was each image was added a little bit of movement overlay some tax that tells the story
and then add some music to the background.
Not too complex at all.
But again combine this video with a text version of the information to get the most out of it.
If you come up with enough ideas for each type of video perhaps you could even plan and create a video
series of your own like a monthly interview series with web design experts or a weekly tutorial on a
different feature that your mobile app has video series are nice because it saves you from coming up
with all the creative ideas for a video.
Every time you make one you have a series you'll be able to come up with a structure like how it begins
and ends what you do in the video each time you'll have an established link like if you want each one
to be say two minutes long each time or ten minutes or whatever and you'll have some reusable pieces
you can use for each episode like intros and outros.
Even the graphics and music are pretty or usable with a video series you can deliver a consistent experience
each time meaning your audience will come to expect your videos and anticipate them before they arrive.
So consider how you can use these content types to your advantage.
Tutorials interviews companies stories case studies and listicle.
All right guys I'll see you in the next lecture.